{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Review of vowel formant measurements indicates that phonetic differences between male and female talkers are a function of language (dissociated somewhat from vocal tract length). An auditory word recognition study indicates that listeners can process words faster when the talker has a stereotypical sounding voice. So the idea is that people are definitely processing social information in voice. An exemplar-resonance model of perception derives these effects suggesting that reentrant pathways between cognitive categories and detailed exemplars of them leads to the emergence of social and linguistic entities.\
\
Acoustic phonetic variability of the sort that marks social identity poses an interesting and significant challenge to theories of speech perception.\
\
To Johnson, you need to think of variation as a sociophonetic process (fundamentally including concepts of social identity) to have a correct view of what\'92s going on during speech perception.\
\
People in the past have thought that any acoustic phonetic variability is lawful and thus hardwired in the neural circuitry for speech perception. I mean, if any variation is lawful, there\'92s no need for experience to play a role in shaping the speech perception neural circuitry, so we can assume it\'92s hardwired the way it is from day one. However, sociophonetics is a thing, and sociophonetic variability has social signaling values that are in truth phonetically arbitrary. For this reason, we can\'92t think of everything being hardwired in the brain to accept just any kind of acoustic phonetic variability as lawful.\
\
Speech perception theorists have treated gender variation as a source of substantial phonetic variation and as lawfully deriving from typical vocal tract length differences, and therefore a candidate for processing via a hardwired \'91normalization\'92 algorithm that helps you classify as male or female.\
\
However, gender differentiation in speech is rather arbitrary. (how arbitrary?) This calls into question the existence of some pre existing normalization algorithm the brain could use. If acoustic phonetics of gender varies quite arbitrarily within-language let alone across languages, then there probably isn\'92t a hardwired hard and fast normalization algorithm in the brain for processing gender.\
\
The fact that there are arbitrary differences across languages for how gender varies phonetically implies that people perform gender to some extent (Caplan, 1987; Weeks, 1989).\
\
Evidence that we need to consider anatomy of articulation to account for gender variation:\
-(see Johnson 2005) Men and women\'92s vowel formants differ from language to language (see also Bladon, Henton, and Pickering (1984). They found vowels produced by men are on average lower by about one Bark (the critical band of auditory frequency resolution) from vowels produced by women. This difference between males and females itself varies from language to language (across a sample of six languages). Evidence supports the idea that male and female vowel formant differences are variable across languages and dialects of the same language. See Johnson 2005 for information on the acquisition of phonetic gender differences. This all suggests that gender differences are not solely due to vocal tract anatomical differences between men and women. This could have been not a big enough sample though; with a large enough random sample, we expect our findings such as these vowel formant measurements to be representative, but phonetic samples are often not very large or random.\
\
Men or women perform gender differently in different languages (Johnson, 2005). See Fant (1975) for information on possible gender dialect features. Listeners must compensate for gender differences in a way that pays special attention to the typical or expected difference between men and women for a particular speech community (Johnson, 1989, 1997a, b, 2005). Listeners must compensate for gender differences in a way that pays special attention to the typical or expected difference between men and women for a particular speech community. Johnson 1997a in particular argues that this community-sensitive evaluation of gender differences could be accomplished in an exemplar-based system of categorization (Nosofsky, 1986; Hintzman, 1986).\
\
Furthermore, listeners are sensitive to gender stereotypes in auditory word recognition (see Strand, 2000). If gender is a social category and sounding male or female is a matter of performance, then the perceptual process is likely to be sensitive to stereotypical gender characteristics (how does this tie into children learning different social registers and does this occur concurrently with other associations and stereotypes they build around gender early on?)\
\
Strand was able to categorize speakers as stereotypical and non stereotypical male and female talkers. Male talkers who clustered tightly with other male talkers were generally identified as \'91male\'92 more quickly than male talkers who were peripheral to the male group. Same with women (between the perceptual talker space for women and the female gender classification response times). \
\
Listeners also took longer to begin repeating the words produced by the non stereotypical talkers, and this effect was also significant in an analysis of covariance that took stimulus word duration as a covariant of reaction time. The ANCOVA demonstrates that the voice stereo typicality effect is real and robust, and is independent of any word duration effect.\
\
Listeners come to the task of speech perception and auditory word recognition with gender expectations. Linguistic material produced by voices that do not fit those expectations is not processed as efficiently as is material produced by stereotypical voices. A resonance-exemplar model that is capable of producing emergent categories of talker and linguistic analysis can help explain all this.\
\
We could look at the CLAV study as demonstrating that children use gender expectations to make inferences about the social categories of gender? Nah, we\'92re pretty much just saying that children use gender as defined from the acoustic signal and use the social categories it activates in inference tasks; you could see how this could be relevant to word learning scenarios.\
\
The heart of the exemplar-based approach is that people remember linguistic episodes and not linguistic descriptions; this is the core of the cognitive representation of language. Similarity between input speech and exemplars determines the activation of each of the exemplars in response to the input and then connection weights between exemplars and category nodes feeds activation from exemplars to categories. Talker characteristics are retained in long-term memory in the set of remembered exemplars. \'93In this way, the system accommodates the \'91social construction of gender\'92 (Caplan, 1987) where the normalization model does not, because the representation of \'91male\'92 or \'91female\'92 can be dictated by the exemplars of voices rather than by a universal vocal tract normalization algorithm.\'94\
\
Exemplars are \'91experienced instances\'92 of language. I choose to treat words as exemplars because words lie at the intersection of form and meaning and thus generate coordinated patterns of activity in both sensory and higher level areas of cognition.\
\
In an exemplar-resonance model of speech perception, an incoming utterance is encoded by the auditory system as an auditory spectrogram, which is then compared with a large set of exemplars of similar auditory images. Activation from the exemplars feeds up to linguistic categories and to gender categories. Reentrant loops feed activation back down to the exemplar store setting up a resonance in the system. However, not all experiences of a word have the same impact on speech perception, due to the logarithmic influence of word frequency in speech perception during language acquisition. The model in this paper still falls short, because the exemplars of the words must instead be replaced by the mental representations of words that emerge from correlated multimodal experiences of those words.\
\
For social identity (what it sounds like to be male or female) resonance leads an ambiguous item to be drawn in to one category or another, so listeners may be convinced of the gender of a voice even when the phonetic characteristics of the speech token are not clearly male or female.\
\
References:\
Bladon et al (1984). Towards an auditory theory of speaker normalization.\
Caplan, P. (Ed.). (1987). The cultural construction of sexuality.\
Johnson, K. (2005). Speaker normalization.\
Weeks, J. (Ed.). (1989). Sex, Politics, and Society, (2nd ed).}