{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Van Berkum, et al. 2008 \'97> Furthermore, merely showing the face of a male or female speaker also affects fricative and vowel perception (Johnson, Strand, \\& D\'92imperio, 1999; Strand, 1999).\
\
Talker normalization theory assumes that listeners\'92 subjective, abstract impressions of talkers play a role in speech perception. The gender of a visually presented face affects the location of the phoneme boundary between two vowels in the perceptual identification of a continuum of auditory-visual stimuli ranging from hood to hud. This effect was found for both \'91stereotypical\'92 and \'91non-stereotypical\'92 male and female voices.\
\
The results from these experiments suggest that listeners integrate abstract gender information with phonetic information in speech perception. This conclusion supports the talker normalization theory of perceptual speaker normalization.\
\
Given this realization that speakers adopt individual speaking styles, our view of speech perception and auditory word recognition assumes that the recognition of words and phonemes in the speech signal takes place in an environment of non-invariance across talkers. The convenient fiction of an \'91ideal speaker-listener\'92 proposed by Chomsky (1965) reflects a set of basic assumptions used in most studies of speech production and perception. one of the primary assumptions in Chomsky\'92s idealization is that speakers and listeners employ an invariant speech code to transmit linguistic messages to each other (lLiberman et al., 1967; Stevens & Blumstein, 1978), and so the apparent lack of acoustic invariance in the speech signal has traditionally been a topic of significant interest (Perkell & Klatt, 1986).\
\
Firth 1964 \'97> individual differences in speech are central to how language works in society\
\
McGurk & Macdonald (1976) and MacDonald & McGurk (1978) found that visual information can influence the perception of consonant place of articulation in clear and unambiguous auditory signals. In their classic demonstration (the McGurk effect), audio /ba/ was synchronized with a videotape of the talker saying /ga/. Observers watching and listening to these AV mismatches typically heard the talker saying /da/, a blend of the audio and visual syllables. This effect has been replicated numerous times, and occurs whether or not the observer is aware that AV mismatches will be presented.\
\
Even infants show the McGurk effect (Rosenblum, Schmuckler & Johnson, 1997). McGurk effect messes with your perception of consonant place much more easily than it does your perception of consonant manner.}