{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Ability to classify human voices according to speaker gender is important in its relationship to emerging cognitive abilities during early infancy and in its possible relationship to the perception of speech and language.\
\
2-month-olds discriminated to all stimulus changes, while 6-month-olds discriminated only in the between-category condition. Evidence here then of male/female voice categorization in 6-month olds. This big difference between 2 and 6 month olds may suggest fundamental differences in the way in which these two groups of infants process speech and language stimuli.\
\
Categorical perception, as viewed from the model of adult speech perception, has been defined as the ability to discriminate between-category contrasts better than within-category contrasts (Liberman 1970).\
\
Perceptual constancy in phonetic categorization seems to be available to infants by 7 months of age (Kuhl, 1980).\
\
Fant (1973) and Peterson and Barney (1952) have shown that differences in fundamental frequency and formant structure vary as a function of the class of the speaker (man, woman, child). These studies have shown that not only do male and female speakers produce different acoustic output for the same phoneme, but they often may produce similar spectral patterns for different phonemes.\
\
Coleman 1973 found that by manipulating F0 and formant structure (using male F0 but female formant structure, for example) both contribute to the perception of speaker gender. F0 had a larger effect than formant structure, but the resonance characteristics of the formants contributed in large part to this identification as well. Rand 1971 showed that speaker gender has systematic effects upon the specific identification and category boundaries that adult listeners assign to the bae-dae-gae continuum. \
\
Ergo, speaker differences are more to the speech perceiver than just random noise, and instead accurate speech perception for the mature listener may involve more fundamental knowledge of the characteristics of male and female voices.\
\
Miller, Younger, & Morse 1982 would argue that the ability to categorize different voices with respect to gender may be one process by which infants can \'91normalize\'92 the extensive (and probably very salient) acoustic variability produced by different speakers.\
\
By at least 7 months of age, infants do appear able to categorize male and female voice tokens (Miller et al 1982).\
\
The observation of habituation to a particular stimulus (or set of stimuli) suggests that the infant recognizes that stimulus (or stimuli) as familiar (has formed a memory for it). When the stimulus has changed, dishabituation implies that the infant has noticed that change; failure to dishabituate suggests that at some level the infant views the new stimulus as the same as, or similar to, the old (now familiar) stimulus.\
\
6 month olds clearly demonstrated categorical discrimination for male and female voices, whereas 2 month olds exhibited equal amounts of discrimination (response recovery) to both between-category and within-category changes.\
\
In both the auditory and the visual modality, the 6 month old infant\'92s world appears to be a significantly more organized and \'91abstract\'92 one than the world of the 2-month old.\
\
Male and female voices differ along a variety of acoustic dimensions, most specifically in fundamental and formant frequency characteristics.\
\
References:\
Fant, G. Speech sounds and features. 1973.\
Peterson and Barney 1952.\
Coleman, R. O. A comparison of the contributions of two vocal characteristics to the perception of maleness and femaleness in the voice. 1973.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 Miller, Younger, & Morse. The categorization of male and female voices in infancy. 1982.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 Rand, T. C. Vocal tract size normalization in the perception of stop consonants. 1971.}