{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 How does development proceed? Thelen and Smith (1994) weighed in, inspired by the work done in the 1980s to make models of development, in 
\i A Dynamic Systems Approach to the Development of Cognition and Action
\i0 . The proposed a radical view of development as fluid, multi determined, grounded in perception and action, and free of mental structure. Gradually more and more people started using dynamic systems and connectionist approaches in their developmental research.\
\
Trying to link dynamic systems approach and connectionist approach. Hope for a synthesis where each provide complementary views of the developmental process.\
\
Many shared concepts across approaches:\
-attractors:\
-self-organization:\
-emergence:\
-soft assembly:\
\
Chapter 1: Connectionist Models of Development: Mechanistic Dynamical Models with Emergent Dynamical Properties\
\
Symbolic paradigm of cognitive modeling, from Minsky and Papert (1969), Newell and Simon (1976), etc. remains very much alive today. Connectionist model first championed by Rosenblatt (1958), in which cognitive processes are viewed as emergent functions of a complex stochastic dynamical system. McClelland (1989), Plunkett & Marchman, 1993, etc explored the implications of this paradigm for development. \
\
Mechanistic v. Emergent Dynamics:\

\b A mechanism is a set of rules or equations that stipulate certain microscopic behaviors in a system. 
\b0 \ul When the stipulations are in the form of differential equations, the resulting system behaviors are mechanistic dynamics.\ulnone  
\b When several mechanistic subsystems interact, however, there is the possibility of surprising behaviors. \ul We term such behaviors emergent, and they are typically at a different level of description than mechanistic dynamics.\ulnone  
\i Such emergent properties may have their own non-stipulated temporal evolutions, and we term such evolutions emergent dynamics.
\i0  
\b0 (dynamics because they describe the change in the emergent properties over time).
\b  
\b0 \
\
Using this terminology we can aptly characterize connectionism and dynamical systems theory. Both approaches assume that (a) mechanistic dynamics are best described by differential equations that are rooted in biology and (b) psychological phenomena such as categorization and selection reflect the emergent dynamics of the system. 
\b The key theoretical issue is not just to describe the emergent dynamics, but also to explain how emergent dynamics arise from the underlying mechanistic dynamics. 
\b0 The last point is crucial since it distinguishes connectionist and dynamical systems approaches from other approaches in which the focus is on a descriptive characterization of emergent dynamics.\
\
A further characteristic of connectionist systems in particular is a graded notion of emergent dynamics. Four parts of a generic connectionist system:\
1. The activations of the units, with a set of differential equations stipulating how inputs to units are related to their activations\
2. The connection weights between the units, with a set of differential equations stipulating how weights are to be updated\
3. The environment of the system, which provides input stimulation\
4. The mismatch between the system\'92s behavior and the target behavior (that is, the error)\
\
Think of the units as a pool of neurons, and the activations as being like the population activity of these neurons. Consequently, the activations are influenced by the current weights and environment; the weight changes are influenced by the activations and the mismatch; and the mismatch itself is influenced by the environment and the activations (which constitute the ongoing behavior of the system).\
\
In a generic connectionist system, the mechanistic dynamics of the system are simply those that result from the differential equations. These mechanistic dynamics can give rise to emergent dynamics! The weights can also change over a variety of timescales, but the activations are assumed to only change over a fast timescale. The difference in timescales for the mechanistic dynamics leads to a difference in timescales for the emergent dynamics. Ergo, there can be short-term emergent dynamics that co-exist with long-term emergent dynamics. The short-term emergent dynamics model activation processes that are assumed to be complete within the range of a second (like figuring out from visual input what word you are looking at) and the long-term emergent dynamics are assumed to operate over a developmental timescale and may therefore also be termed developmental dynamics.\
\
The focus of many connectionist models has been a change over a developmental timescale, so their emphasis usually is on the same time-evolution as connections. In multi-layered connectionist networks, time-evolution can have complex dynamical properties, undergoing both accelerations and decelerations, even though the weight-change mechanism itself does not undergo any change. \
\
The essential point: Connectionist systems are dynamical systems, and like other dynamical systems, they can have complex emergent properties which themselves may be described by dynamical variables (rates of change with respect to time) and dynamical structures (attractors, transitions, and instabilities).\
\
Connectionist systems have a graded notion of emergent dynamics: on a short timescale, connection weights can be treated as fixed, as contributing (along with the architecture of the system and the mechanistic dynamics of the activations) to the emergent time course and outcome of a single act of information processing and/or behavior, such as reaching to one of two locations. Over a longer timescale, (like months or years) changes in the connection weights lead to changes in the short-term emergent dynamics and may make possible new kinds of behavior (e.g., a 20-month-old toddler may remember and reach differently than a 10-month-old infant). Consequently, emergence is not sharply demarcated in time or scale \'97 it occurs gradually and concurrently on different timescales, with long-term emergence shaping the short-term emergent behaviors and vice versa. Both the short- and long-term behaviors exhibit properties congruent with those postulated by dynamical systems theory (DST). 
\b What connectionism adds over and above DST is an explanation of how the different scales of emergence are related
\b0 .\
\
Mechanisms change over time according to given differential equations \'97> mechanistic dynamics. When a bunch of subsystems with mechanistic dynamics interact, there can be emergence of other properties or behaviors, or emergent behaviors or properties, themselves governed by differential equations. These emergent behaviors or properties have their own temporal evolutions, and these evolutions of emergent behaviors and properties are called emergent dynamics. We can think of many psychological processes as reflecting emergent dynamics of a system of biological mechanistic dynamics all interacting. How we even get the emergent dynamics out of mechanistic dynamics is treated differently in DST and connectionism. Connectionist systems in particular think of emergent dynamics happening across timescales (and of emergent dynamics at different timescales interacting with emergent dynamics of other timescales). Long-term emergent dynamics are called developmental dynamics. Activations change only on a fast timescale. Weights change across timescales. Talk about certain properties emerging as the result of mechanistic dynamics (given by particular equations).\
\
What is crucial to this discussion is that the time-evolution of the connection weights (which are the parameters that determine the emergent dynamics and outcome of the short-term processing) are themselves defined in terms of differential equations. The results of these connection dynamics are emergent cognitive structures such as feature detectors, perceptual categories, and behavioral abilities, as well as the trajectories of change in such properties.\
\
Simplification of activation dynamics sometimes goes hand in hand with simplified weight-change dynamics. This is the case when a network is trained using back-propagation, which updates each weight in proportion to its influence on the overall error. Back-propagation is biologically implausible but is a useful simplification that allows one to study how network architecture, statistical structure of input, and experience history interact to produce particular patterns of emergent, long-term behavior. While intrinsic variability (such as due to neural noise) is often left out of specific models for simplicity, it is assumed to always be at work in processing. In certain cases the interaction between distributed patterns (between different spatial modes) may be recast as an interaction between localist units.\
\
Connectionist systems are dynamical systems that can have both short- and long-term emergent behaviors. These emergent behaviors may themselves be described by dynamical variables, such as attractors and transitions, and are therefore similar in spirit to the models postulated in dynamical systems theory (DST).\
\
Explorations given by McClelland\'92s models do not preclude the possibility that other mechanistic assumptions can give rise to similar system-level behavior. DST and connectionist theories can be clustered into three overlapping classes.\
1. Classes that directly model cognitive phenomena using dynamical equations. Such theories do not show how the emergent dynamics arise from the mechanistic dynamics and, in fact, may leave out the mechanistic dynamics entirely. They may therefore be seen as a compact dynamical description of the phenomena.\
2. Classes that seek to explain how complex phenomena such as stability and entertainment arise from simple nonlinear interactions. However, this emergence is characterized at a short-term timescale, and developmental changes (if any) are imposed by the modeler rather than arising from within the system. There is no account of the interaction between short-term dynamics and developmental dynamics. It is worth emphasizing that the focus on short-term dynamics is usually due to modeling expediency, and should not be taken as a theoretical claim that developmental dynamics are outside the scope of a dynamical theory.\
3. Classes that attempt to show how mechanistic, short-term, and developmental dynamics interact with and influence each other. Many connectionist models are conceptually in this class. However, such an explicit linkage of levels is not present in every connectionist model; some connectionist models simplify the mechanistic activation dynamics while others simplify the weight-change dynamics. Usually this is just for computational feasibility. A detailed model of micro dynamics can sometimes obscure the key characteristics of the problem.\
\
Connectionist and dynamical approaches address a similar question: how do varied forms of cognitive organization emerge from the underlying physical substrate? Dynamical system researchers tend to emphasize the mechanical constraints imposed by the organism\'92s body, while connectionists tend to consider such constraints as properties of the physical elements within the nervous system (such as neurons and neural connections, or at least abstractions of their properties). Explicitly dynamical models address the constraint satisfaction using dynamical metaphors such as coupling and stability, while connectionist models address it using neuronal metaphors such as propagation of unit activity and weight change. However, these are differences of emphasis that should be seen as complementary rather than competing. For example, within connectionist approaches, consideration of dynamics at many scales is essential since this allows for gradual integration over constraints at various spatial and temporal scales. Thus, we view the two approaches as converging on the same problem from different sides, and we hope that the insights of each approach will continue to inform the ongoing development of the other.}