{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 This paper shows that there was equal recognition for production variants of spoken words that differ greatly in frequency. If word recognition of a production variant depended solely on the frequency of experiences of those variants, you would never see equivalent recognition in this case. Phonetic variation must play a central role in the spoken word recognition process.\
\
Listeners adeptly understand spoken words despite the substantial variation that occurs in the speech signal. Goldinger, 1998 has suggested that individual linguistic events (exposure to a particular talker-specific variant) are encoded, with frequent events forming dense clusters of episodes. Johnson, 2006 shows that these clusters facilitate activation of acoustically similar productions compared to less dense clusters.\
\
When we examine variation we\'92re typically looking at differences in acoustic form, but we haven\'92t looked yet at how semantic encoding is affected by variation; looking at this more would help us investigate spoken language understanding better. Without looking at deeper levels of encoding, we don\'92t know for sure that our predictions based on form-based tasks will hold water when we look at deeper levels of encoding. Ergo, we look at semantic encoding to try to begin to get at this question.\
\
Sumner and Samuel (2009) found that speakers of general american english new to the NYC area recognized semantically related target words faster after critical primes than after unrelated control words (lexical access activated similar words) but ONLY when the primes were produced by a speaker who spoke the prime in the general american variant, not the NYC variant.\
\
Both the NYC variant primes and the GA primes equally facilitated target word recognition for NYC residents who spoke either variant. This is recognition equivalence.\
\
van Orden and goldinger, 1994 showed that semantic activation is delayed when form-based processing is slowed. Ergo, we wouldn\'92t expect less frequent productions (the NYC variant that GA speaking people new to the NYC area heard) to yield strong semantic priming. So the effect we saw is likely due to the van Orden and Goldinger effect about semantic activation being delayed since the form-based processing is slowed for the GA new-to-new-york listeners.\
\
Listeners seem to have detailed memory for infrequent but idealized forms of words. Words uttered in general american accents should be more frequent for general american participants than those uttered in various non-general american accents.\
\
Accounts of false memory:\
1. Associative activation of semantically related words leads to false memories.\
2. Words are encoded with different strengths of verbatim or gist memory traces, with false memories resulting from when certain words are being encoded as just the general idea of what is going on. The false memories result as the semantic set becomes and remains active.\
\
When encoding exactly what was said, listeners have better memory for particular words.\
\
GA listeners recognize and recall spoken words uttered by a GA  speaker and those uttered by a BE speaker with striking similarity. \
\
Social weighting may result in equally robust representations for variant pronunciations, despite differences in global frequency rates (cf. Sumner 2013). We still need to explain is not only how BE prompts equivalence to GA, but why NYC prompts a null effect in the semantic priming paradigm but robust spreading activation in the false memory paradigm.\
\
As a rule, semantic priming decreases as attention decreases, due specifically to attention allocated to primes. Encoding of words with either verbatim or gist traces is also modulated by attention. Gist encoding results from decreased attention.}