{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red26\green26\blue26;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs30 \cf2 Language can not be fully understood without consideration of the social and psychological context in which it is acquired and used. Systematic variation within every speaker, reflecting who he is addressing, where he is, what the social event may be, topic of discussion, social relations being communicated, etc. To acquire full communicative competence, children must learn to speak not only grammatically, but also appropriately. Children are part of a variety of speech situations, including situations with people who are of a different age, gender, or status with them, and they need to know how to competently communicate with them.\
\
Chomsky: competence is purely grammatical knowledge allowing you to produce the infinitely large set of sentences in your language. Performance is the language behavior with certain factors affecting production like social conventions of your community, your beliefs and attitudes, goals, etc. Semanticists in the 70s showed you need to evaluate children\'92s knowledge in the context in which they use their early language and the kinds of semantic relations they encode. Campbell and Wales (1970) proposed that competence include the native speaker\'92s capacity to produce or understand utterances appropriate to the verbal and situational context. The question became how social conventions and speaker\'92s attitudes and beliefs about the world systematically impact language structure. Hymes (1972) said a child becomes able to accomplish a repertoire of speech acts, to take part in speech events, and to evaluate their accomplishment by others. There are a large number of social skills in communication that children must acquire before they can be said to have mastered the use of their native language. Andersen here examines the repertoire of registers young children possess, the linguistic devices that they use to mark distinct registers, and the way their skill in using these registers develops.\
\
Register refers to variation in dialects in relation to users; registers are linguistically distinct varieties of speech that cover the entire spectrum of language use in a community.  We can recognize and respond to (passive use of) certain registers that we do not use, like sermon preaching.\
\
3 main dimensions of register: mode, field, and manner. Mode of discourse is the medium of the language activity. Field of discourse is what is going on, the topic being talked about, and speakers\'92 intentions (especially concerning technical v non-technical). Manner of discourse is personal relationships among the participants and their social roles. A register is an interaction between these parameters. Different components of the parameters operate simultaneously.\
\
Registers can be analyzed qualitatively by the presence or absence of certain features, and quantitatively by the proportional frequency of occurrence of certain features.\
\
Speech to very young children typically contains a high proportion of interrogatives and imperatives; older children are addressed with more declaratives.\
\
Lots of evidence that men\'92s and women\'92s speech is quite different; women use more tag questions and requests and particular lexical items and phonological patterns (Smith 1979; Thorne, Kramerae and Henley 1987, Lakoff 1975). \
\
Adults speak to children in simplified speech marked by changes in pitch and intonation, in rate of speech, and in relative syntactic and semantic simplicity (Snow and Ferguson 1977, Phillips 1973, Snow 1972, Remick 1971). Fathers\'92 speech to young children may differ from that of mothers on a number of dimensions, including number of direct imperatives and use of child\'92s name (Gleason 1975).\
\
Ferguson (1975) notes that Foreignertalk is an imitation of how foreigners sound speaking English, and shares many features with caretaker talk. Ferguson (1977) categorizes both baby talk registers and foreigner talk registers as \'91simplified\'92 registers. \
\
At least in American middle class society, child-directed language appears to be quite grammatical and to differ systematically from language addressed to adults along a number of dimensions. Clark and Clark 1977 show that these modifications are suited to make language acquisition easier. Features included are absence of consonant clusters, liquids, inflections, and complex syntactic structures, combined with a predominance of nasals, reduplicated syllables, lengthened vowels, exaggerated intonation patterns, shorter sentences, and a number of special lexical items. \
\
These modifications may be helpful in attracting and holding the young child\'92s attention and in providing consistent clues to the child about how to map ideas onto language and how to segment the flow of speech which he hears, in order to identify sentences, phrases, words, and morphemes (Clark and Clark 1977, Slobin 1973, Bever 1970).\
\
Children seem to be fairly selective listeners who seem to attend only to attend to language addressed to them (Shipley et al 1969).  Adults use higher pitch and exaggerated intonation to signal it\'92s time to pay attention. Garnica (1975, 1977) showed that adults significantly raise the fundamental frequency of their speech significantly when speaking to 2 year olds and that adults effectively double the prosodic range of their speech when talking to children; rising contour (typically used for questions) is much more ubiquitous. The question like intonation may signal that they are seeking confirmation. To get attention the child\'92s name is used often, as well as large amounts of one word utterances with high pitch and heavy stress. Once the child is attending, to hold attention adults talk about things of immediate interest to the child; \'93here and nowness\'94 of the speech (Phillips 1970). Questions and imperatives act as attention-holders because the verbal or action responses they require provide a constant check on whether the child has listened and understood.\
\
This all helps solve the mapping problem \'97> here-and-now speech encourages children to use contextual clues to decipher word meanings. 90% of adult-to-child speech word segmentations have pauses, helping solve the segmentation problem. Whispering in baby talk may signal that they\'92re just talking to the kid.\
\
Something like \'91find a \'91 + x or \'91where\'92s \'91 + x are sentence frames (Peters 1983, Broen 1972, Ferguson et al 1973) that provide clues to segmentation. None of these are universal or necessary for language acquisition.\
\
A major function of child language appears to be the socialization of the child: input language is more or less accommodating, in one situation or another, in a way that contributes to the child\'92s understanding of socially appropriate verbal (and nonverbal) behavior in his or her culture. Studying baby talk should shed light on the notion of what is basic or simple in language theory. \
\
Male And Female Speech:\
-there are substantive differences in the nature of language used by men and women, at the phonological, grammatical, and lexical level; there are also differences in the way each use conversational styles or linguistic modes of interaction (Smith 1979,Thorne and Henley 1975, Thorne, Kramerae and Henley 1983). Much of these differences are closely tied to culture-specific and culture-defined norms of societal roles. For this reason, speaking like a man or like a woman can mean very different things depending on the language community one is in (Keenan 1974). According to Rubin and Nelson 1984, we can think of these differences as differences in register because both men and women use forms characteristic of either sex to suit the situation (to appear more or less assertive, nurturing, powerful, etc).\
\
There are systematic phonological differences as well as prosodic differences. Women more likely to use a surprise pattern or a polite cheerful pattern than men. Differences in pitch between men and women larger than would be accounted for by difference in vocal tract size alone. Sachs 1975 says that difference in male and female formant values is more likely to be a linguistic convention than a purely physiological difference (due to trying to produce acoustic patterns corresponding to male and female stereotypes cf. Mattingly 1966). Women have a wider pitch range than men (Warren-Leubecker and Bohannon 1984). Women use more tag questions. Lakoff (1973) argues that the biggest linguistic difference between American men and women is between choice of lexical items.\
\
It remains unclear precisely how many of the differences proposed by researchers are stereotypes we have of men\'92s speech and women\'92s speech and how many are actual sex differences in their language use. There is evidence to suggest that members of the American speech community believe that the language of women has a higher frequency of certain features that are considered negatively. These gender differences can impact all areas of language use, overlaying and impacting all other register differences.\
\
\ul An Overview of Developmental Sociolinguistics\ulnone :\
To be considered competent, a speaker must have good knowledge of the variations discussed already. Children have to learn the dialect(s) that will mark different components of their social identity, including region of origin, social class, ethnic group, age, and gender. They must acquire pragmatic rules to allow them to express many social meanings relevant to the individual contexts in which they communicate with others, and especially relevant to the claims they want to convey to their interlocutors about their relative power and solidarity.\
\
Features (or lack of certain features) in one language community may signal language delay, while they might represent the end-state of development in another language community. It\'92s all dependent on how those features are perceived in the speech community. \
\
Important to consider both the development of user (dialectical) variation in children and the acquisition of different aspects of use (registral) variation.\
\
Research by Labov and Wolfram has suggested that by ages 8-10 children have the competence to fully use the prestige variant of their speech, but may reject it around 14-17 to build solidarity with their peers or to reject social norms equated with the class of speakers who use the prestige variant.\
\
The speech of women in American society can be characterized by greater use of intensifiers, \'91meaningless\'92 particles in place of swear words, politeness markers, non-basic color terms, expressive adjectives, and euphemisms. There is evidence that children are sensitive to gender-related differences both in actual usage and in stereotypes of language use quite early. Several studies showed sex differentiation in the use of phonological or paralinguistic variables by English-speaking children as young as six years old (Romaine 1975, 1979, Biondi 1975, Sachs, Lieberman and Erickson 1973), and demonstrated grammatical variation reflecting gender among slightly older children (Cheshire 1982, Romaine 1975, Wolfram and Christian 1976); others still have provided evidence of speech quantity and content differences between boys and girls (Haas 1979, Sause 1976, Staley 1982).\
\
Sachs, Lieberman, and Erickson (1973) demonstrated that children show appropriate gender-specific intonation patterns well before they themselves have experienced the physiological changes that lead to changes in fundamental frequency during puberty. Sachs 1975 showed that in recordings of pre-pubescent children\'92s spontaneous speech, adults were very good at determining a speaker\'92s gender by voice quality alone. In the study, the F0s of boys were actually higher than that of the girls\'92, so they had to be using information from the quality and intonation of the children\'92s speech to determine their gender (boys had lower vowel formant frequencies, and girls were less forceful in their rhythm and stress). In early adolescence, boys tend to use more non-standard grammatical forms than do girls.\
\
Haas (1979) demonstrated that at each age group studied, (4 yrs, 8 yrs, 12 yrs) in same-gender dyads, boys talked more about sports and girls talked more about school work. In mixed-gender dyads, girls used more polite markers and boys used more explicit directives. To Haas, boys as young as 4 already show the speech patterns of adult males, and girls show the pattern of adult females more and more between the ages of 4 and 12.\
\
Sause (1976) showed that 5-6 year old boys discussed physical movements, space, quantity, self, and value judgments more than did girls, and even had a larger quantity of speech; girls talked about the female role more frequently than did boys. This all suggests that some gender differences exist between the speech of young boys and girls by the age of 4; early differences tend to be phonological or tend to involve quantity and content of discourse more than differences in grammatical usages.\
\
Edelsky 1977 and Garcia-Zamor 1973 both looked at children\'92s sensitivity to gender stereotypes regarding language use. Edelsky had adults, 6, 8, and 11 year olds judge whether written sentences were more likely to be used by a male or a female. All age groups used clear gender distinctions, but they differed by age in what the distinctions actually were. Children\'92s stereotypes were there but they were not as consistent as were the adults\'92. A complete knowledge of gender stereotypes as to what marks appropriate speech for your gender is still being established during adolescence, according to Edelsky.\
\
These stereotypes are likely learned due to differential linguistic input to boys and girls in American society, with Cherry and Lewis (1976) showing that speech of mothers to young daughters was marked by longer utterances and more repetition of the child\'92s speech than was the input to their sons. Teachers seem to ask more questions to girls but to use more directives to boys. Parents more frequently interrupt when their daughters are speaking.\
\
The fact that fathers use different modes of language than do mothers, that teachers interact with girls differently than they do with boys, and that children as young as 4 show gender-related distinctions at the phonological, paralinguistic, and discourse levels suggests that even preschool children have knowledge of the ways in which language can be used to mark speaker identity.\
\
Understanding dialectical variation \cf3 requires a working knowledge of stable characteristics of speakers, such as their age, gender, and ethnic background, but understanding \cf2 register variation requires aptitude in remaining sensitive to dynamic and subtle sociolinguistic variables that mark what is appropriate language use at a given place, time, and interlocutory context.\
\
Across the role realizations that an individual uses through register changes every day, register variation allows a speaker to impart not only propositional content, but social information about themselves. Registers typical vary as a speaker\'92s role varies and as the roles of their interlocutors and the situations they encounter them in varies.\
\
To use register correctly, children need to have the proper linguistic tools (the right lexical variations to refer to the same object), the proper syntactic variations (that can allow them to phrase things more or less directly, and more or less politely), an understanding of the social roles that they ought to play as defined by their culture, and the frames in which certain roles are appropriate given a set of interlocutors and the goals they might have in communicating with them. Coordinating all this is not easy! Exploring children\'92s communicative competence in experimental settings allows us to manipulate particular aspects of their settings to see which are relevant, and exploring their competence in natural settings allows us to see whether the effects we see are ecologically valid.\
\
As a rule, children tend to have poorer linguistic performance in studies when there are heavy cognitive and social demands, but tend to use significantly more sophisticated communicative skills when the setting is more naturalistic and familiar to them.\
\
During the preschool period there is remarkable growth in social cognition, in children\'92s knowledge of people\'92s socially significant characteristics and of interactions among people.\
\
\ul The development of social categories\ulnone :\
By about 2 years of age (Fischer and Jennings 1981), children have begun to represent people as independent agents whose actions are separate from their own (theory of mind), and then begin to categorize people\'92s actions according to their perceived roles, so they begin to think that boys act this way, girls act this way, men do this but women do that, etc. This socialization process is ongoing until adulthood. In the preschool years children are beginning to understand social roles and social relations; these are the categories onto which variable linguistic forms must be mapped to convey social meaning.\
\
Adults explicitly label dimensions of social identity pertaining to gender, and these labels in turn affect children\'92s perception of other social identity attributes. If shown an infant labeled as a boy, preschoolers will call the infant strong, active, and hardy, but if the same infant is called a girl, the preschoolers will call it pretty, sensitive, and even fussy. Evidence from children\'92s pretend play shows that by age 3 children are very aware of gender distinctions and have established their own se identity, and are sensitive to the status and power that is associated with age, and they value that status.\
\
Fischer 1980 shows that by age 3, children can begin to understand gender-related roles such as boy-girl, man-woman, but can\'92t really process more than one at a  time. By age 6, they understand more complicated \'91role intersections\'92 in which during play they understand that someone can be a woman and a doctor, a husband and a patient. Before this time children have a hard time understanding that people can fill in more than one role. After this point, complexly intersecting role realizations become less foreign to them, and they can begin to see the role realizations active in others and in themselves. Their struggle to integrate understanding of multiple social roles for the same individual in question leads to severe stereotyping based on knowledge of one of their roles. For this reason, a 4 year old child will often claim that women always wear dresses even if their mother never does (Kuhn et al 1978, Williams et al 1975). Children will even support the social norm that men go off to work and women stay at home regardless of whether their parents fit that pattern. Children around the age of 4 believe that boys and girls are quite different and even believe that they could be opposites. Only after children can understand role-intersections around age 7 do they begin to lose the oversimplified stereotypical categorization of their peers in favor of a more tempered model that matches society\'92s definitions of social categories better.\
\
A child\'92s competence in a particular task is not uniform, but changes depending on the demands and context of the situation.\
\
Girls and boys are as sensitive as to what constitutes appropriate sociolinguistic behavior (as far as choice of register is concerned) but there is evidence that boys are more concerned than girls are with avoiding using incorrect register, or more broadly, incorrect sociolinguistic variable usages for a given social identity.}