{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Explanations of listeners\'92 ability to routinely perceive both the sex and individual identity of talkers from their speech remain incomplete. This paper assumed source-filter theory, and looked at F0 (representing larynx size) and vocal tract length cues (reflecting body size) which they believed to be the strongest acoustic correlates of talker sex. \
\
They assume that variations in supra laryngeal vocal tract-related anatomy occurring within sex were expected to be prominent in individual talker identity. As it turned out, classification by talker sex was virtually perfect when F0 and vocal tract length were used together, whereas talker classification depended primarily on the various acoustic parameters associated with vocal-tract filtering.\
\
Theorists have long proposed that speech utterances routinely include acoustic information concerning talker characteristics, in addition to their purely linguistic content. The talker characteristics they deemed personal or indexical parameters (e.g., Ladefoged and Broadbent, 1957; Ladefoged, 1967; Abercrombie, 1967) which are studied in order to understand the nature of the information they convey (e.g., Scherer, 1986) and how linguistic information is recovered despite acoustic variability among talkers (e.g., Joos, 1948; Peters, 1954; Miller, 1989; cf. Goldinger, 1996; Pisoni, 1997).\
\
Vocal-fold action is characterized using fundamental frequency of vibration (F0), corresponding to perceived pitch. Vocal-fold transfer function (input-output relation) of the supra laryngeal vocal tract is usually described in terms of resonance (formant) characteristics. \
\
The supra laryngeal vocal-tract length is about 15% greater in males (Fant, 1966), producing characteristically lower formant frequencies. Sexual dimorphism occurs in both source and filter production components, so they looked at the combination of F0 and acoustic indices of VTL to provide the best index of sex.\
\
However, features such as F0 and formant characteristics are manipulated in running speech for linguistic and prosodic purposes. \
\
Wu and Childers, 1991 has given us some indexical attributes of talker sex and talker identity.\
\
Vocal-tract transfer function variation should be quite important to indexical cueing, and may provide more stable, individually distinctive acoustic information than does variation in vocal-fold action.\
\
References:\
Ladefoged and Broadbent (1957): Information conveyed by vowels\
Ladefoged (1967): Three Areas of Experimental Phonetics\
Scherer (1986): Vocal affect expression: a review and model for future research\
Joos (1948): Acoustic Phonetics\
Peters (1954): The relative intelligibility of single-voice and multiple-voice messages under various conditions of noise\
Miller (1989): Auditory-perceptual interpretation of the vowel\
Pisoni (1997): Some thoughts on \'91normalization\'92 in speech perception\
Childers and Wu (1991): Gender recognition from speech. Part 2. Fine Analysis.}