{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Parental modeling, rather than differential socialization of girls and boys, appears to be the mechanism by which children learn to request action in sex-associated ways. From a rather early age, children associate the more direct way of requesting action with males and the more indirect ways with females.\
\
Andersen (1979) Register variation in young children\'92s role-play speech: found that, when playing the role of \'91father,\'92 4-year old children phrased directives in imperative form; but when playing \'91mother\'92, they tended to choose indirect forms. Could be that about this time they\'92re beginning to internalize these gender stereotypes. Tie into CLAV results.\
\
By age 3 or 4, children are aware of at least some aspects of these relationships about who you ask what about, and how you ask it to that person depending on your relative rank with other speakers. (Gleason, 1973), Andersen & Johnson, 1973.\
\
This paper tries to address how children might acquire these gender stereotypes, specifically looking at parent-child interactions.\
\
At the time, there were three basic theoretical views about the way linguistic gender stereotypes come about:\
1. Parental modeling is the important process involved in children\'92s acquisition of sex-associated ways to request action; imperatives account for a greater percentage of males\'92 than females\'92 utterances to young children across a variety of settings (Gleason, 1975).\
2. Parents use different forms to boys and girls, who, in turn, learn to speak as they have been spoken to; fathers tend to use more imperatives when speaking to sons than daughters and suggested that, early in life, boys, unlike girls, become used to giving and receiving orders (Gleason, 1975).\
3. The directive forms that parents address to young girls and boys reflect the ultimate status that males and females have in our society; parents interrupt preschool girls more frequently than they interrupt preschool boys (Greif, 1979)\
\
Their question revolved mostly around socialization in terms of requesting action, but evaluating the dual forces of parental modeling and the differences in CDS between mothers and fathers remain important even when generalized to general socialization of gender stereotypes.\
\
Discussion: Broader phenomenon where fathers not only produce more imperatives than mothers, but more directive speech acts in general. We found that mothers and fathers select differently from among the forms which can be used to express directive intent.\
\
Andersen (1979) Register variation in young children\'92s role-play speech\
Andersen & Johnson (1973): Modifications in the speech of an eight year old as a reflection of age of listener\
Gleason (1973): Code-switching in children\'92s language\
Gleason (1975): Fathers and other strangers: Men\'92s speech to young children.\
Greif (1979): Sex differences in parent-child conversations: Who interrupts whom?\
\
Susan U. Philip: Language, Gender, and Sex in Comparative Perspective\
\
Biology, Society, and Behavior: The Development of Sex Differences in Behavior (eds. Ann V. McGillicuddy-De Lisi, Richard De Lis)\
\
\'93Psychology of the media.\'94 David Giles, 2010\
\'93Media and youth: a developmental perspective.\'94 Steven J. Kirch, 2010.\
\'93Speaking with Style: The Sociolinguistic Skills of Children.\'94 Elaine S. Andersen, 1990.\
\'93The Other Parent: The Inside Story of the Media\'92s Effect on our Children.\'94 James P. Steyer. 2002.\
Mehler recommendations? Re-check out Andersen for citations\
\
Can put these all under the broad heading of investigating the development of gender stereotypes in general.\
\
Andersen interviewed the parents of the children who were producing all these stereotyped speech. Children up to 8 and 9 can have these stereotypes coming from children\'92s books and children\'92s TV shows. Psychology work shows that around 8 or 9 they cast these off a bit \'97> children\'92s role or social stereotypes. Look in Andersen again. Suggests that there\'92s an outside influence: children rely on the stereotypes even when their parents don\'92t match the stereotypes. \
\
Maybe look for survey studies of what children watch at different ages? What TV do 2s watch when they\'92re home and are the parents watching it too? Is the TV just a babysitter? Makes a big difference whether the parent is there watching it with them or not. Books are usually just an overview of journal-published work. That\'92s fine. When a lay person comes in and tries to do the work or to cite the sensational results that\'92s not ok.\
\
Berko Gleason one time looked at kindergarten teachers who were male versus females \'97> the males and the females spoke the same here, but fathers did not.\
\
Mehler does infant speech perception.\
\
}