{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 A crucial part of language development is learning how various social and contextual language-external factors constrain an utterance\'92s meaning. By preschool, children use voice characteristics predictively to constrain a talker\'92s domain of reference, visually fixating on the talker\'92s preferred color shapes. Indicating flexibility, children used talker information when the talker made a request for herself but not when she made a request for the other character.\
\
In some cases, children seem to have difficulty integrating cues that adults use. It is not well understood how or when various cues are utilized during development, and what differentiates earlier acquired cues from later acquired ones.\
\
Children might use talker information, enhancing their understanding of spoken language by knowing what person or sort of person is talking to them. One important way to obtain this information is through the voice. Voices are like faces in their ability to convey both categorical information and individual identity. Any of the identifying factors, like gender, age, femininity, etc. in the voice will be related to the content of that individual\'92s language output, reducing the set of possibilities of what that person is likely to say. It is not clear whether children use information about who is talking to inform their comprehension.\
\
Studies have supported the hypothesis that talker-specificity effects result from the precise acoustic encoding of words that contain both phonemic information and voice characteristics (Goldinger 1996, 1998).\
\
There is also the hypothesis that comprehenders encode talker information semantically: inferred properties of the talker influence processing and encoding of linguistic content.\
\
Children can form associations between unfamiliar voice characteristics and unfamiliar people. Children\'92s processing of unfamiliar voices may be poorer than adults\'92, perhaps reflecting a need for extensive perceptual learning or greater attentional capacity in order to adequately process acoustically-subtle voice distinctions. \
\
Just being able to identify a talker does not mean that children can use this information rapidly during language comprehension. Five- to six-year-old children often seem to process cues more slowly than adults, or fail to integrate cues with linguistic information.\
\
Children do not seem to apprehend the meanings of vocal emotional cues until age 5 or 5 (Quam & Swingley, 2012), may not use it predictively until after age 4 (Berman, Chambers, & Graham, 2010), and may disregard vocal emotional cues when they conflict with sentence content up to age 8 or so (Morton & Trehub, 2001).\
\
This suggests that preschool children\'92s associations of prosody with meaning are present but somewhat fragile. Thus, preschool children may also have difficulty using talker information to constrain comprehension, despite recognizing a particular talker.\
\
The picture painted by previous research leads to a number of possibilities about how preschool children might use talker information in on-line comprehension. \
-First, they may not use it at all because it requires integrating talker information with other (sentential) sources of information, and children generally have more trouble than adults in integrating cues (Morton & Trehub, 2001; Trueswell et al., 1999; Zelazo, Frye, & Rapus, 1996).\
-Second, children may show sensitivity to talker information in terms of low level acoustic matching (\'93I have heard this set of acoustic characteristics before\'94) but may not be able to map sound patterns onto higher level representations, such as particular individuals (\'93This sounds like the person who likes pink things\'94). This means that if children do use talker information to constrain sentence processing, they might be using it implicitly \'97 showing a processing benefit due to greater low-level acoustic similarity to past experiences rather than accessing representations of the talkers themselves.\
-Finally, children may be limited relative to adults in using talker information in comprehension, due to poorer abilities to distinguish novel voices (Mann et al., 1979). That is, they may be able to use highly distinct voices to constrain on-line comprehension but may not be able to use very similar voices.\
\
Adults use voice cues to talker identity to constrain comprehension of spoken language, but children might not do so for a variety of reasons. Thus, the study aimed to investigate whether children use voice cues at all to talker identity to constrain sentence processing. Second, if children use voice cues, how do they use them \'97 at a low (acoustic) level or a high (semantic) level? While adults presumably use voice cues to activate knowledge about the talker, children might simply associate acoustic cues with some external referent. The third aim was to explore whether children are limited in their abilities to use voice information due to difficulty discriminating voices.\
\
Based on Experiment 1, both children and adults can use acoustic cues to talker identity to activate knowledge about the person speaking and then use that knowledge to constrain the domain of reference for that talker. Adults are presumably using talker information to make inferences about a talker\'92s likely behavior (Van Berkum et al. 2008). Children, however, might be making low-level mappings between color and the vocal properties of the talker (so if I hear a girl talking, this would activate the color pink regardless of the content of what she said). This wouldn\'92t be useful if the girl talking were talking about someone beside herself. If children are using talker information at a high level they are determining what preferences should be invoked in constraining processing. That is, they might know to utilize acoustic cues selectively, when the talker is speaking about herself.\
\
Based on Experiment 2 (where the speaker only talked about himself half the time), even child participants were accessing high-level representations of individuals rather than merely activating a direct auditory-visual association between acoustic attributes and color. Children visually fixated the shapes that were the agent\'92s preferred color, even if the color did not match the talker\'92s preferences. When the girl asked for a shape for herself, children looked more at the pink shapes, but when the girl asked for a shape on the boy\'92s behalf, participants looked more at the blue shapes. 
\i This suggests that when children use talker information in on-line processing, they are using it to access information about the individual rather than merely activating representations of color based on acoustic information
\i0 . Moreover, they can use it adeptly, switching between referential (third-person) cues and acoustic information to make predictions.\
\
Children appear to use voice characteristics to access their knowledge about people, which they then use to augment their comprehension. \
\
They do this even if the individual speaker\'92s color preferences aren\'92t buttressed by gender stereotypes of color preferences.\
\
But do they learn the color preferences of the individuals themselves, or of the salient social categories (their gender) to whom those individuals belong? The actually learn the individual talker\'92s preferences.\
\
Human listeners are able to use acoustic cues to talker to constrain on-line language processing as early as the preschool years. Preschoolers appear to accomplish this by using voice characteristics to access representations of talkers\'92 (or agents\'92) mental states, specifically, their color preferences. Preschoolers rapidly learn and use simple preference knowledge about new talkers. However, netierh preschoolers nor adults take advantage of vocal cues to identify two newly learned characters matched for gender, age, and dialect. For adults, this likely results from inattention rather than inability to discriminate the two voices. In children\'92s case, difficulties are likely due to failure to discriminate, which itself may be due to inattention to talker characteristics.\
\
In similarity-scaling studies, gender often accounts for the largest amount of variance (e.g., Singh & Murry, 1978), suggesting that any gender difference is likely to be more salient than a within-gender voice difference.\
References:\
Perry, Ohde, & Ashmead, 2001 \'97> the speech signal contains information about speaker gender\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 Zelazo, Frye, & Rapus, 1996 \'97> children have more trouble than adults in integrating cues\
van Berkum et al., 2008 \'97> semantic encoding of talker information in adults}