{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 All of the categorical effects are characterized by better discrimination of between-category contrasts than within-category contrasts, though the magnitude of the effect varies between domains.\
\
This paper develops a computational model of the influence of categories on perception through a detailed investigation of one such phenomenon\
\
Examining specifically the perceptual magnet effect (Kuhl, 1991), which has been described primarily in vowels. The PME involves reduced discriminability of speech sounds near phonetic category prototypes. For several reasons, speech sounds, particularly vowels, provide an excellent starting point for assessing a model of the influence of categories on perception.\
\
In the tradition of rational analysis proposed by Marr (1982) and J.R. Anderson (1990), we consider the abstract computational problem posed by speech perception and show that the PME emerges as part of the optimal solution to this problem. Specifically, we assume that listeners are optimally solving the problem of perceiving speech sounds in the presence of noise. In this analysis, the listener\'92s goal is to ascertain category membership but also to extract phonetic detail in order to reconstruct coarticulatory and non-linguistic information. This is a difficult problem for listeners because they cannot hear the speaker\'92s target production directly. Instead, they hear speech sounds that are similar to the speaker\'92s target production but that have been altered through articulatory, acoustic, and perceptual noise. We formalize this problem using Bayesian statistics and show that the optimal solution to this problem produces the PME.\
\
Under this assumption, the Bayesian model complements the process-level memory model by predicting the extent to which each mode of memory is used: for categories with high variability and in lower noise conditions, listeners should rely more on acoustic memory, whereas for categories with low variability and in higher noise conditions, listeners should rely more on phonetic memory.\
\
This paper has described a Bayesian model of speech perception in which listeners infer the acoustic detail of a speaker\'92s target production based on the speech sound they hear and their prior knowledge of phonetic categories. Uncertainty in the speech signal causes listeners to infer a sound that is closer to the mean of the phonetic category than the speech sound they actually heard.}