{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13900\viewh7900\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Several cognitive constraints on infant auditory processing: temporal rate at which they can access sequential inputs (Conway & Christiansen, 2009), the number of elements they can hold in working memory (Ross-Sheehy, Oakes, & Luck, 2003), and the depth to which they can ultimately encode the novel stimulus (e.g., Sokolov, 1969).\
\
The infant must pick and choose both to which auditory inputs to attend and on which aspects of a single auditory stream to focus. Locating and tracking the relevant statistics from within the continuous surge of incoming auditory data are then crucial for infants to solve the many auditory learning tasks they face.\
\
Strategy for infants:\
1. Could allocate attention on an \'91as available\'92 basis, but this is inefficient and could be futile.\
2. Make attention dependent upon relevant properties of the stimulus itself, perhaps actively allocating attention to auditory material that is most useful for learning.\
\
Following strategy 2, several people have formulated the 
\b discrepancy hypothesis
\b0  that suggests that the complexity of a stimulus can be conceptualized as relating to the infant\'92s current knowledge state.\
\
Goldilocks Hypothesis holds that infants are likely to terminate their attention at sounds with very high or low complexity based on their prior beliefs. If the next sound is moderately probable according to the model\'92s updated belief \'97 the complexity of that event would fall in the intermediate Goldilocks range, thus leading infants to be less likely to terminate their attention to the sound sequence. Children will terminate their attention predictably during events with both very high and very low complexity values under this model.\
\
The results here from the transitional MDM model suggest that infants seek to maintain intermediate rates of complexity when allocating their auditory attention to sequential sounds. This is consistent with the hypothesis that infants employ an implicit strategy of attentional allocation in the auditory modality that is very similar to attention in the visual modality.\
\
The results provide quantitative evidence that infants process an attentional selection mechanism that operates over the predictability of the stimulus. In other words, infants\'92 behavior may instead result from an additional mechanism designed to select the most informative, trustworthy observations \'97 and discard those that are uninformative (overly predictable) or unreliable (so surprising that they are implausible). \
\
What we\'92d like to know is how good speech perception is for children who are starting to use language? There is very little work on this! \
\
What does it mean to talk about stereotypes here? If these are things kids get rid of, and things that adults refer to, what are they actually? \
\
Adult-child would have to be another discrimination they would make early on. For adults, it is very difficult to tell whether it\'92s a male or female child speaking up to 10 years old. Do kids know how to do this? What are they using to discriminate male and female kid voices. Can children even discriminate between kids voices who are male or female? Guess is that they can\'92t do that.  Thinking through the dimensions at play is very important. \
\
People are very good at recognizing individual voices most of the time. When do kids develop this? When do they recognize their mothers voice or fathers voice as opposed to other speakers? How good are parents at distinguishing their children\'92s voices after the age of 1? We don\'92t know.\
\
These are all little pieces that it would be nice to have in place. Is it just a distinctive type of voice or a distinctive way of speaking (manner) that may be the distinctive properties. Could any of this be characteristic ways of talking about things, how much your pause, what words you choose, how you articulate? \
\
Interesting to take people with similar voice quality and see if people who can tell the difference based on some other basis? Could look at siblings who talk quite differently. \
\
Doing all this work can help you identify the gaps in the research here? What are the features or dimensions or differences kids are using to do talker identity and to build up your repertoire of how to do this. When you\'92re learning to do this you\'92re doing this with a much more elaborate complex of features and modalities to help guide you. Which of those dimensions can call up the whole? Visual appearance can do it, but can voice do it?\
\
Studying this would contribute to what kinds of things affecting how children learn to interact with some types of people. What about when children interact with unfamiliar people readily that allows them to do this? Voice quality? Gaze? Facial expressions?\
\
Alberta Siegal looked at mismatches of prosody and content. Youngest children would cry with bad prosody regardless, and older children would cry with bad content and bad prosody, and were frustrated when there was a mismatch.\
\
6+1+4+4+6+6+7+6+5+1+8+4+5+7+1+16+1+3+2+21+10+2+5+5+4+1+1+6+4+1+6+4+12+9+14+7+1+7+6+9+11+7+3+12+2+2+6+1+1+24+8+42+22+5+3+1+10+4+4+17+1+3+8+1+12+9+11+21+3+5+12+2+1+6+2+5+9+9+9+3+5+7+1+3+3+4+6+1+6+1+1+8+10+8+19+8+9+1+5 = 651\
\
thinking about spooky plans for make spooky plans. This one is husband with her so that\'92s why she\'92s wife of him. Yes they\'92re equally (didn\'92t take off the adverb ending). Dropped plural only once \'93Veronica and Naomi are sisters\'94. Uses it more than 75% of the time. Uses \'91catched\'92 for \'91caught\'92.\
\
Uses 
\i is 
\i0 incorrectly once: her favorite colors is the same colors as me. Also says \'91as me\'92 instead of \'91as mine.\'92 Definitely knows \'91mine\'92 but hasn\'92t learned to use it in a comparative statement like that.\
\
Uses sayings like \'91cream cheese that is regular\'92 instead of \'91regular cream cheese.\'92 Interesting instance where she says \'91not apparently,\'92 the mom asks her where she learned it, and she says \'91I don\'92t know but I did know then\'92. It\'92s like witnessing a transition from comprehension vocabulary to production vocabulary in process! Interesting use of \'91this is my bed my brother\'92s in\'92.\
\
Uses \'91he doesn\'92t have a work\'92 for \'91he doesn\'92t have a job.\'92 Sometimes starts off with \'91she\'92 and backtracks to using \'91he\'92 for males. Uses \'91woof\'92 for \'91wolf\'92 so it could be that she has trouble pronouncing the /l/ before the /f/ or it could be that she\'92s using onomatopoeia to refer to that specific wolf from the Little Red Riding Hood fairy tale}