{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 At 7.5 months of age, infants oriented longer to passages containing familiarized words when these were produced by the original talker. At 7.5 and 10.5 months of age, infants did not recognize words in passages produced by a novel female talker. In contrast, 7.5-month-olds demonstrated word recognition in both talker conditions when presented with passages produced by both the original and novel talker. The findings suggest that talker-specific information can prime infants\'92 memory for words and facilitate word recognition across talkers.\
\
In a typical language environment, the vast majority of words that infants hear occur in the context of fluent speech rather than in isolation (van de Weijer, 1998; J. Z. Woodward & Aslin, 1990). Hence, before they can encode the sound patterns of words into memory, infants must first segment them from fluent speech. Pioneering work by Jusczyk and Aslin (1995) showed that by 7.5 months of age, infants display some ability to segment monosyllabic words from fluent speech. The findings suggest that infants stored some information about the sound patterns of the words, which allowed them to recognize these words when they occurred subsequently in the fluent speech passages.\
\
For example, between 6 and 9 months of age, English-learners develop sensitivity to the predominant stress pattern of words in English (Jusczyk, Cutler, & Redanz, 1993). Moreover, they are able to use this information to extract words with the predominant stress pattern from fluent speech (Echols, Crowhurst, & Childers, 1997; Houston, Jusczyk, Kujipers, Coolen, & Cutler, 2000; Houston, Santelmann, & Jusczyk, in press; Jusczyk, Houston, & Newsome, 1999). Between 7.5 and 10.5 months of age, infants also begin to exploit phonotactic probabilities (Mattys, Jusczyk, Luce, & Morgan, 1999), allophonic cues (Jusczyk, Hohne, & Bauman, 1999), statistical cues (Saffran, Aslin, & Newport, 1996), and coarticulation cues (E. K. Johnson & Jusczyk, 2001) to identify sequences of sounds in fluent speech that correspond to words. The point here is that well before the end of their 1st year, infants have the capacity to extract the sound patterns of potential words from fluent speech.\
\
To be useful in comprehending utterances, the representations of the sound patterns of words that infants encode must persist in long-term memory and generalize to new instances. Although much progress has been made in understanding infants\'92 word segmentation abilities, little information is available regarding their memory for words that they segment from the speech stream.\
\
In the traditional view of the mental lexicon, it\'92s assumed that representations of the sound patterns of words consist of phonological descriptions that are stable across different instances of the same word, free of indexical properties \'97 characteristics that provide listeners with information about a talker\'92s identity, sex, emotional state and so forth \'97 that typically vary across different utterances. The indexical information is often viewed as noise, and variants of this model all share the assumption that talker-specific information must be discarded to arrive at phonologically pure forms.\
\
The traditional view that word representations are phonologically pure has been called into question by findings suggesting that listeners encode indexical properties in their word representations. Specifically, 
\b word identification and recognition are affected by talker-specific information. Listeners are better at recognizing the recurrence of a word in the list when the word is presented by the same talker both times than they are if the talkers are different (Bradlow, Nygaard, & Pisoni, 1999; Craik & Kirsner, 1974; Palmeri, Goldinger, & Pisoni, 1993). Likewise, listeners demonstrate same-talker facilitation when identifying words in white noise (Goldinger, 1996; Nygaard, Sommers, & Pisoni, 1994). Goldinger (1996) explored same-talker facilitation effects (talker specificity effects) on implicit and explicit memory of words over delays of 5 min, 1 day, and 1 week. He found same-talker facilitation effects on the implicit memory task (word identification in noise) at all delay intervals. Similarly, Church and Schacter have found evidence for voice repetition priming on implicit but not explicit memory tasks (Church & Schacter, 1994; Schacter & Church, 1992). These results suggest that listeners may form implicit memory traces of talker-specific information. Findings such as these have led some researchers to propose that listeners encode specific, acoustically detailed instances of words in their lexicons rather than abstract, canonical versions of words (Goldinger, 1996, 1998; K. Johnson, 1997; Jusczyk, 1993, 1997).
\b0 \
\
Their findings demonstrate that 7.5-month-olds\'92 memory for talker-specific information persists in long-term memory! Infants orient longer to passages when they are presented in the same voice as they were in the familiarization phase than when the voice is different. The findings suggest that indexical information plays a role in accessing words from long-term memory.}