{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Examines the effects of talker variability on the recognition of words in fluent speech. At 7.5 months of age, infants attended longer to passages with the familiar words for materials produced by 2 female talkers but not for materials by a male and a female talker; suggests a strong role for talker-voice similarity in infants\'92 ability to generalize word tokens. By 10.5 months, infants could generalize different instances of the same sod across talkers of the opposite sex.\
\
One implication of the present results is that infants\'92 initial representations of the sound structure of words not only include phonetic information but also indexical properties relating to the vocal characteristics of particular talkers.\
\
The speech signal is rich with information. It carries not only the phonetic and prosodic information of language but also nonlinguistic or indexical information. From speech, a listener can determine the identities of talkers, their physical and emotional state, their sex, their regional dialect, and other qualities that reflect the physiological characteristics of their vocal apparatus and the dynamics of their articulation. Because all this information is contained in the same acoustic signal, any one aspect or type of information is not physically isolated from the rest. Consequently, it is not straightforward to understand how a listener extracts phonetic information from the complex array present in speech.\
\
Remez, Fellowes, and Rubin (1997) found that their listeners were able to extract information about talker identity from sine wave speech stimuli, even though these stimuli lack the acoustic attributes of natural voice quality. They interpreted their finding as an indication that the phonetic properties of words may themselves encode the necessary information to identify both words and talkers.\
\
What information listeners encode into lexical representations has implications for language acquisition. If indexical information is encoded with the words children are acquiring, then a word learned in one instance may not be immediately generalizable to other instances of that word. The amount of indexical variability in the infant\'92s environment would thus play a large role in developing a mental lexicon. Exploring the effects of indexical information during the formation of the mental lexicon may also shed some light on the extent to which talker-specific information is encoded during normal speech encoding. It could be argued that adults in word-recognition experiments may focus on more surface details of spoken words if they know or suspect that they will have to recall hearing those specific instances later. It is unlikely that infants form similar expectations. The experiments reported here focus on the nature of infants\'92 representations of words as they begin to develop a lexicon. Do infants represent words in such a way that indexical information affects their ability to recognize different instances of the same word? Or, do infants represent only an abstract phonetic description of words in the lexicon?\
\
Palmeri et al 1993 shoed that same-talker repetitions of words were better recognized than different-talker repetitions of the same words and that there was no evidence of any significant interaction with talker sex on these effects.}