{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The world into which children are born is full of gendered information; furthermore, learning what it is to be a boy or girl is foundational in successfully forming social relationships, social identities, as well as learning how to think and behave in your culture. This development happens in a variety of different contexts \'97 at home, they form different relationships with men and women than at school. Development is about understanding the subtly different contexts that require different mappings of gender knowledge. Gender differentiation and asymmetric gender attitudes are prevalent among young children and may be the seeds for later gender differentiation and discrimination. Status asymmetries are quite hard to break down.\
\
You can see gender as the key, binary social category to many children (Duveen & Lloyd 1992), such that gender information presented to children is so ubiquitous that it is the first social category that children acquire. A key task for a child in a given culture is to both understand gender and also operate as a gendered social agent. Through building gender structures, children are able to shape their own social identity (for the sociocultural perspective on this, see Rogoff, 1990). Actively participating with others in development shapes a child\'92s understanding of a properly gendered way of being. There is a pattern for girls to become socialized toward similarity and connection in important family relationships, whereas this is not necessarily the case for boys. Gender continues to define the behaviors and shape the opportunities available to young boys and girls in restricting and unfair ways.\
\
Children practice gendered behavior in their interactions with their parents from a young age. Children\'92s beliefs about gender become incorporated into their gender schemas (Berenbaum et al., 2008), however, they conform to gendered patterns of being before their understanding of those patterns become explicit. Children are apprenticed into activities and ways of being appropriate for their cultural context (Rogoff, 2003). Leaper et al, 1998 found that mothers are more affiliative with daughters than with sons. Leaper & Smith 2004 showed that girls use more affiliative language than boys do with both parents and peers, and boys in return use more assertive language than do girls.\
\
GENDERED INTERACTIONS AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES:\
Females and males prefer the company of same-sex peers (Maccoby, 1990). Boys and girls are fought to be socialized within separate cultures, with girls learning to behave and interact from other girls, and boys learning from other boys (Leaper, 1994; Maccoby, 1998). This leads to a magnification of the differences in the gendered characteristics of girls\'92 and boys\'92 social interactions (Maccoby 1990). This leads to boys learning to be more competitive, forceful and assertive, and girls learning to be more affiliative, obliging, and relational (Leaper and Smith, 2004). As children continue to interact within their own gender sphere, these in-group traits are strengthened, making it even easier for children to interact with members of the same sphere and even more difficult for them to interact with members of the other gender sphere. Martin et al, 2012 refers to this as the Gender Segregation Cycle, noting especially that this cyclic interaction with members of the same sphere contributes to strongly stereotyped thinking about gender and increasingly negative attitudes about peers of the other gender. However, behavioral variability is related to important behavioral and social outcomes (DiDonato et al, 2012; Martin & Ruble, 2009; Martin et al., 2005).\
\
As early as age three, girlrs and boys begin to show preferences for interacting with peers of the same gender (Maccoby & Jacklin, 1987; LaFreniere et al., 1984; Serbin et al., 1994). These patterns become strengthened in preschool and early childhood, and children spend more of their time in social interactions in groups of the same gender than in mixed gender groups (Maccoby & Jacklin, 1987; Martin & Fabes, 2001). According to Martin et al., 2012, same-sex peers effectively socialize children into the norms, styles, and behaviors associated with their own gender group and that this occurs more for children who spend more time in these groups (the \'91social dosage\'92 effect).  Playing only with one\'92s gender group gives children more opportunities to learn through modeling, to communicate group norms to one another, and to practice the skills and behaviors of their own gender group to the detriment of learning to interact with members of a different gender group. Working in mixed-gender dyads typically leads to more negative and controlling verbal and non-verbal behavior in preschool children than does working in same-gender dyads (Homes-Lonergan, 2003; Leaper & Smith, 2004; Leman et al., 2005).\
\
THE GENDERED SELF-CONCEPT:\
Children\'92s acquisition of culturally-defined gender knowledge is both rapid, and outpaces their understanding of other social categories based on race, ethnicity, religion, nationality, language groups, and castes (Bigler & Liben, 2006, 2007; Levy & Killen, 2008; Martin & Ruble, 2004; Martin et al, 2002). This outpacing occurs cross-culturally. Gender is one of the first social group categorizations that children learn to make, and once they begin to categorize others based on their gender, they begin to classify particular attitudes and traits with males and females. Once entrenched, these associations can subtly shape men\'92s and women\'92s behavior to fit different roles and activities (Croft et al., 2013; Davies et al., 2005; Steele et al., 2002). Research into the development of social cognition has demonstrated that implicit biases and associations are governed by and therefore likely to develop in ways distinct from explicit beliefs. Data on the developmental trajectory of implicit gender stereotypes and attitudes can inform our theories of how such biases shape a child\'92s conception of him or herself.\
\
Gender biases influence how men behave toward women in professional interactions (Logel et al., 2009) and disadvantage women from being selected for certain jobs (Goldin & Rouse, 2000; Moss-Racusin et al., 2012).  People have implicit cognitive associations mapping gender categories to different traits and attitudes. These associations are learned early on in life despite explicitly endorsed stereotypes and attitudes. Furthermore, these implicit cognitive associations an be activated in ways that bias perception and behavior. Men with stronger implicit stereotypes about women behave in a more domineering and flirtatious way in professional interactions with women (Logel et al., 2009). Researchers have began to study implicit processing of stereotypes in young children (Baron & Banaji, 2006, 2009; Cvencek et al., 2011a; Dunham et al., 2008; Newheiser & Olson, 2012; Rutland et al., 2005), and such work allows us to examine the developmental trajectory of unconscious cognitions. Studying these implicit effects rather than their explicit counterparts circumvents methodological challenges that would impair our efforts; measures of implicit gender associations are generally less susceptible to self-presentational concern (Banaji, 2001; Nosek, 2007) and avoid some of the interpretive pitfalls inherent to testing the cognitions of young children (Baron & Banaji, 2006; Dunham et al., 2008). Furthermore, it is quite possible (in fact it is almost certain) that older children and adults still possess negative gender stereotypes and attitudes despite a reluctance to express them when it would be deemed socially inappropriate. The goal of studying implicit cognitive associations is to tap into those stereotypes and attitudes without raising social desirability concerns in a subject.\
\
Studying gender associations in this way informs our theories of children\'92s developing sense of self as seen through the lens of gender given to them by their society. Implicit associations and cognitions shape behaviors in ways that are independent of the effect of explicit attitudes and beliefs (in adults), so to understand their developmental trajectory would permit us a chance to try and circumvent these negative effects.\
\
-how implicit associations are learned in general\
-development of implicit gender associations and attitudes\
-ways in which developing mind may strive to achieve cognitive-affective balance among gender stereotypes and the self-concept\
-implications of all this for theories of the acquisition and development of implicit social cognition more generally, including the timing and method of efforts aimed at changing such cognitions.\
\
The conventional view (apparently): implicit associations are the product of a domain-general computational mechanism that detects patterns of covariation, establishing an implicit association that may be stereotypic (e.g. female = relational) or evaluative (e.g. female = bad). Since this learning mechanism is believed to be domain-general, it is hypothesized that all associations are learned via the same basic process (Bigler & Liben, 2007; Greenwald & Banaji, 1995). These domain-general associative learning processes can also shape associations between a child\'92s concept of gender and a child\'92s emerging concept of self. Associations between concept of self and particular activities and between the concept of gender and those same activities can form via independent processes, but they are also importantly linked in one\'92s broader associative network of cognitions. \
\
Gender attitudes emerge prior to gender stereotypes and the awareness of one\'92s own gender identity (Martin et al., 2002). Examining implicit gender attitudes could provide an important opportunity to better understand how principles of cognitive-affective balance begin to take hold at early stages of the developing mind. Cvencek et al., 2011a examined implicit gender attitudes in 4-5 year olds using the Preschool IAT (PSIAT), tasked with categorizing images of boys and girls into their respective categories using either a large green or orange response button connected to the computer. Concurrently, children heard and saw affectively positive words (e.g. good, nice) and affectively negative words (e.g. bad, mad) and were similarly asked to classify these words into their respective categories (good or bad) using the same two buttons. The average reaction time and error rate to categorize male + good (and female + bad) using the same response key was compared with the average reaction time and error rate to categorize female + good (and male + bad) using the same response key. If children exhibit an implicit preference for their own gender group, then they should be faster and more accurate to categorize images of same gender when those pictures are paired with the same response button used to simultaneously categorize positive words. Girls exhibited a quite strong implicit preference for female over male, and boys showed a marginally significant preference for male over female.\
\
Efforts in understanding how to change implicit associations has focused on contact with out-group members as well as direct and indirect forms of exposure to counter-stereotypical and counter-attitudinal information (Dovidio et al, 2002, Dovidio & Gaertner, 1999, Gaertner & Dovidio 2005, Pettigrew & Tropp, 2006, etc.). Much of this work has revealed that while change is possible, it is also surprisingly difficult to achieve. Many of these studies share this same conclusion, but it is worth noting that all of these examinations have exclusively focused on adult samples. Developmental analysis will play a crucial role in understanding when across the lifespan implicit associations are most amenable to change and may help shed light on the challenges faced in changing the minds of adults.\
\
DEVELOPMENTAL SOCIAL COGNITION ABOUT GENDER ROLES IN THE FAMILY:\
Parents who have more egalitarian gender schemas about themselves and society have young children who are less gender stereotypical about careers and occupations (Tenenbaum & Leaper, 2002) and adolescent children who are more tolerant of ambiguity about gender roles (Kulik, 2005).\
\
References:\
Bigler, R.S., & Liben, L.S. (2006). A developmental intergroup theory of social stereotypes and prejudice.\
Bigler, R.S. & Liben, L.S. (2007). Developmental intergroup theory.\
Levy, S.R. & Killen, M. (Eds) (2008). Intergroup attitudes and relations in childhood through adulthood.\
Martin, C.L., & Ruble,D.N. (2004). Children\'92s search for gender cues: cognitive perspectives on gender development.\
Martin, C.L., Ruble, D.N., & Szkrybalo, J. (2002). Cognitive theories of early gender development.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 Croft et al., 2013. Actions speak louder than words: parental beliefs, biases, and behaviors predict children\'92s stereotypic preferences.\
Davies et al., 2005. Clearing the air: identity safety moderates the effects of stereotype threat on women\'92s leadership aspirations.\
Steele et al., 2002. Contending with grow image: the psychology of stereotype and social identity threat.\
Baron & Banaji, 2006. The development of implicit attitudes: evidence of race evaluations from ages 6, 10, and adulthood.\
Baron & Banaji, 2009. Evidence for the early emergence of system justification in children.\
Cvencek et al., 2011a. Measuring implicit attitudes of 4-year-olds: the Preschool Implicit Association Test.\
Dunham et al., 2008. The development of implicit intergroup cognition.\
Newheiser & Olson, 2012. White and Black American children\'92s implicit intergroup bias.\
Rutland et al., 2005. Social norms and self-presentation: children\'92s implicit and explicit intergroup attitudes.\
Dovidio et al, 2002. Implicit and explicit prejudice and interracial interaction.\
Dovidio & Gaertner, 1999. Reducing prejudice: combating intergroup biases.\
Gaertner & Dovidio 2005. Understanding and addressing contemporary racism: from aversive racism to the common ungroup identity model.\
Pettigrew & Tropp, 2006. A meta-analytic test of intergroup contact theory.\
Greenwald & Banaji, 1995. Implicit social cognition: attitudes, self-esteem, and stereotypes.\
Tenenbaum & Leaper, 2002. Are parents\'92 gender schemas related to their children\'92s gender-related cognitions?\
Kulik, 2005. Predicting gender role stereotypes among adolescents in Israel: the impact of background variables, personality traits, and parental factors.\
}