{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The studies tested young infants\'92 sensitivity to vowel and gender information in dynamic faces and voices. The heard voice matched the gender of one face in some studies and the vowel of one face in other studies and, in some studies, vowel and gender were placed in conflict. Robust evidence of the ability to match on the basis of gender was not evident until 8 months of age. When identical stimuli are used, gender matching does not emerge until a later age than does phonetic matching.\
\
Intermodal relations between faces and voices are crucial for the acquisition of linguistic, social, and emotional skills.\
\
Amodal invariants are perceptual cues that are tied to the structural properties of an action or event and are not specific to a particular sensory modality. Rhythm is one such amodal invariant. These findings suggest that phonetic information in the lips and voice may be another instance of an amodal invariant for infants. It could be explained by a specialized module for speech in the brain, as suggested by proponents of the motor theory of speech perception (Liberman & Mattingly, 1985), or could result from a history of interaction between a genetically initiated neural substrate and invariantly occurring species-specifc experience (like human speech; Werker & Tees, 1992). This epigenetic view has been adopted by infant speech perception researchers as reflecting a period of innately guided learning (Jusczyk & Bertoncini, 1988).\
\
Gender information in the face and voice has been described as a natural and typical multimodal relation (Walker-Andrews, 1994). Natural and typical relations frequently occur but are neither exclusively amodal nor exclusively arbitrary. They may comprise sets of overlapping relations, some inherent in audio-visual structure and some that require a period of learning. The intermodal matching of natural and typical relations is expected to emerge later than that of amodal relations due to the culturally specific information that must be learned.\
\
This study suggests that the ability to match dynamic faces and voices based on gender cues may not be evident until 6 months of age and may not be based exclusively on the detection of amodal relations (Miller 1983 also showed 6 months to be a milestone in hearing voices as belonging to a  gender category).\
\
Together, studies of discrimination and categorization suggest that infants are able to notice gender cues by 3 to 5 months of age, but may not be able to use both seen and heard cues to categorize based on gender until the second half of the first year of life.\
\
Children detect most other amodal relations at around the age of 4 months (Kellman & Arterberry, 1998).\
\
Gender is central to human social functioning. Infants appear to focus on events that are salient for them given their stage of linguistic and social development.}